So, I'm pleased to announce that
here we're going to unveil Apple.
I know there's been a lot of interest
in Apple's JavaBean Strategy.
I'm here to unveil our
new JavaBean Strategy.
Tied closely to our
QuickTime Distribution Strategy.
Here it is.
This is the Enterprise scale
JavaBeans here.
Those of you.
So hopefully that will
satisfy a lot of you.
For those of you who won't,
I am pleased to announce Rory Lydon,
the Tools Manager,
often known just as the Tool Guy.
And he's here to tell you about
the other kind of JavaBeans.
Thanks, thanks.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for coming, everybody.
It's a little dangerous to tackle such
a soporific subject matter in that
witching hour between lunch and coffee,
but we'll see if we can
keep each other awake.
As Ernie said, I'm Rory Lydon,
and the subtitle of this session is
"Making the Best of a Bad Thing."
All right,
so obviously this session has two topics,
WebObjects and EJB.
I'm going to cover a little bit of each.
It's certainly not going to
be exhaustive of either topic,
but if there's anything I don't
cover that's a curiosity to you,
please ask a question at the end.
All right?
So, first thing we're going to do is kind
of talk a little bit about what EJB is.
How many of you here--I saw
some people have used EJB.
How many of you think
you know what it is?
[Transcript missing]
Then we'll talk about the differences
between WebObjects and EJB,
kind of the competition or
tension between the two.
And then we'll talk
about WebObjects and EJB,
how they can and will work together.
And then we'll do Q&A.
Okay, so what is EJB?
First and foremost, it's over 300 pages.
Here's the specification.
This is my copy.
If you want to understand it,
there's really nothing for it.
You've got to read this thing.
It's a very interesting document.
We'll come back to that later.
EJB is part of J2EE.
This is very interesting.
It's packaged separately and
it's not a prerequisite to be
a J2EE vendor to support EJB,
but the two are actually
very closely bound.
And you can't in fact ship
the interfaces for EJB without
shipping the J2EE package as well.
So it's a little,
they're very closely bound.
It's a very impressive
marketing achievement.
I mean, anybody who deals with IS or
IT managers knows that,
for a long time,
as application servers and web-based
applications came to the fore,
they were freaking out because
there were absolutely no standards.
And they never knew -- they barely
knew the nomenclature; they didn't
know how to compare different products.
So for them, this was a godsend, right,
because they heard from Java Soft,
"This is the way things are going
to be." And suddenly they realized,
"Oh, well, as long as vendor A and vendor
B both implement Java beans
-- enterprise Java beans,
I can just stack them next to each other,
run a test suite,
and whichever one is faster
will buy and use," right?
So -- and at this point,
the truth be told,
it's impossible to be competitive
in the application server
market without supporting EJB,
for better or worse.
So it is a very impressive
marketing achievement.
And it's also the death of EOF,
according to a wide variety of people.
We even had people in our hallways
running around saying that there
was no need for EOF anymore.
We're just going to do
everything with EJB.
We'll come back to that later.
All right.
Now, specifics.
Several times today, I'm going to quote
from the specification.
There is some very
interesting material in it,
and it is ultimately the
definition of the product.
It's an unusually turgid
piece of technical writing.
It has phrases in it like,
"The EJB is the best." Yeah.
Yeah.
container provider
container provider for short
And my personal favorite,
the EJB server must also provide a
container for the Enterprise Beans
which is called an EJB container.
Slightly less humorous note,
the Enterprise JavaBeans architecture
will be the standard component
architecture for building distributed
object-oriented business applications
in the Java programming language.
That's the fundamental
goal of Javasoft for EJB.
In terms of what is EJB,
the Enterprise JavaBeans
architecture is an architecture for
component-based distributed computing.
Okay, so that's the core definition here.
We'll take a look at that.
First of all,
what does it mean to be component-based?
This is very interesting to me.
There's been a big surge in the
media and in the industry about
component-based development.
But when you try and find out what
component-based development really is,
it's pretty hard to get
a concrete definition.
So what is a component?
People say it's more than an object.
Now,
I personally find this very interesting
because to me the whole genius of
the object-oriented programming
paradigm is that it's all-encompassing.
All the things that we see around us in
the world and even a surprising number
of the thoughts that we have in our
heads are easily renderable as objects,
right?
So, I'm not sure why anyone would need
to come outside that paradigm,
but they're composable,
as the name would suggest.
and they're portable.
Alright, so if you'll indulge me,
I'd like to back up a little bit and
if components are more than an object,
I'd like to take a quick
look at what an object is,
alright?
Most of you probably are already
familiar with the concept,
but an object consists of data,
fundamentally,
and a wrapper of code around that data,
which is that data's interface
to the outside world.
Some objects have just a little data.
Some objects are almost nothing but data.
They just have this
candy veneer of logic.
But objects always have data.
They always have data.
Even if the data is just other objects.
What does it mean to be
more than an object then?
Well, what they're really talking
about here is it's an object,
but it's got an interface outside it,
okay, which essentially constitutes
a contract between the object
and the rest of the world.
Essentially what is often referred to
as the object's habitat or environment,
okay?
So there are two parties
to this contract:
the object, which implements its
half of the interface,
and the habitat,
which supports the object and
provides the infrastructure it
needs to get its business done.
When they say that it's composable,
they just mean that given this contract,
you can take objects from a
variety of different sources
and they can communicate
with the habitat,
leverage the habitat support.
They can communicate with each
other in terms of that support.
And in an ideal world,
in the most sophisticated systems,
they can communicate with each
other purely in terms of their
own logic and the environment
is essentially transparent.
When they say that
components are portable,
well, what they really mean is that
because of this contract,
as long as the objects
support this contract,
you can essentially rip out the habitat
and replace it with another habitat,
excuse me, with another habitat,
and the objects will be perfectly happy.
They won't even know that the rug has
been pulled out from underneath them.
So that's what they're
really talking about.
So they say that a component
is more than an object.
It's composable, it's portable.
To me, a component is just a
well-designed object that works.
So that's the component-based part.
So what about distributed?
Well, or actually, sorry,
before we go into that,
what does this notion of component-based
technology mean in terms of EJB?
Well, there's a contract for every
EJB called Enterprise Bean.
This is a basic interface in the
technology that all EJBs implement.
The counterpart in that contract
is something called a container.
It's providing services to
the object that allow it to
do whatever it needs to do.
Some of these services,
well actually all of these services:
JNDI, this is the Java naming
and directory interface.
It's essentially a distributed
naming scheme and lookup technology.
JDBC, Java Database Connectivity.
A single class in a larger interface
called the Java Transaction API.
I don't know in terms of these
mnemonics which is funnier using
two words for database or using
the A in API as part of an acronym.
The only part that you have to
support is user transaction.
You're also supposed
to support Java mail,
but whatever.
Okay, so these are the big three for EJB.
Now it's interesting because the
relationship between the container and
the contained object is unidirectional.
The container messages
the contained object,
but the contained object has
absolutely no access to its container.
So it has really a kind of implicit
relationship with these services.
It acquires them indirectly.
These services actually inhabit
a larger outside object,
which is the server.
In EJB you have the concept of
a container and then a server
which contains the container.
Turns out the server is actually
remarkably similar to a J2EE server.
J2EE also supports these other
technologies like Java server pages,
Java messaging system,
and again our friend JavaMail.
But JNDI, JDBC,
and the user transaction component of
JTA are the only components of this
system that are really required for EJB.
Okay, now a container can also obviously
contain more than one object,
and a server can operate
more than one container.
This is actually important
because this is how you achieve
scaling and distribution with EJB.
Okay, so let's see.
Let's take a close look at distributed.
Well, again, if you'll indulge me,
I'd like to delve into the definition
of distribution a little bit,
especially as it pertains to objects.
You have some process.
That process lives on a network
and there's a boundary between
the process and its client.
In traditional client-server world,
one side is called the server,
the other is called the client,
but in a truly distributed system,
that definition disappears.
You really have a democratic
topology where there isn't
really a subordinate process,
there are really just two
processes communicating.
One process invokes something in another.
In the simplest world,
in a procedural world, this is an RPC,
something we're all pretty familiar with.
In a slightly more sophisticated world,
such as CORBA,
one is actually invoking a method on an
object contained in the remote process.
And of course in a highly
sophisticated system,
you're just talking about
object-to-object communication.
Now, the big problem with this,
of course,
is that objects tend to be chatty.
And the amount of overhead
associated with communicating back
and forth over the network can
really bring a system to its knees.
This is a very, very interesting problem.
One solution to this problem
is essentially to introduce a proxy on
the remote side of the network such that
objects manipulating that proxy have
the opinion that the object is local.
And you have some distribution
system which manages synchronizing
the proxy with the original.
I don't know how many of you
were here for the Direct-to-Java
client session this morning,
but that's what our distribution
technology is all about.
And indeed,
this balance of the remote object and the
local object is kind of one of the key
skills in the modern development world.
Especially moving forward,
it's all going to be about deciding
how much of the logic you put
on what side of the network.
Typically, on the server side,
you have larger objects
than you do on the client.
But the client-side object can have a
lot of unique logic to it that isn't
even present on the server side.
[Transcript missing]
is to have some kind of stub
object which represents the
remote object but doesn't really
allows you to execute any of the objects
logic locally or access any of its data
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
so going back to the definition of EJB,
again you have your Enterprise Bean.
It's in a container.
The convention in EJB for
distribution is to have a
remote stub called an EJBObject.
which communicates back to the
Enterprise Bean on the server side.
Every time you want to invoke
any business logic on the object
or access any of its data,
you do a round trip on the network.
and incur all the overhead
associated with that.
Now one might think, well,
what if I managed to have
an Enterprise JavaBean in
a container that's local?
So even though the object has
this distribution paradigm,
it's actually in the same
process and in the same VM as me.
Won't that make things faster?
Well, in fact,
according to the specification,
every method call to an entity object,
that's a form of EJB,
via the remote and home interface,
the only way to get at an EJB,
is potentially a remote call.
Even if the calling and called entity
bean are collated in the same JVM,
the call must go through the container,
which must create copies of all
the parameters that are passed
through the interface by value.
The container is also required
to check security and apply the
declarative transaction attribute
on the intercomponent calls.
The overhead of an intercomponent call
will likely be prohibitive for object
interactions that are too fine-grained.
So obviously this is a
very coarsely grained,
heavyweight technology.
Even when two EJBs are
in the same process,
there's an inordinate amount of
overhead for them to communicate.
Hardly the most hospitable habitat.
Okay, so that's the distributed portion.
Just a word here.
Like I said,
I'm not going to go into too much detail.
And that's not because it
isn't interesting or because
I'm attempting to avoid it.
It's just I'm trying to keep
this as simple as possible.
There are two flavors of EJB:
a session bean and an entity bean.
The fundamental difference really
is that an entity bean is very
similar to what we call an EO or an
Enterprise Object in that it has a
primary key and it really represents
A business object,
a single business object
within your system.
A session bean is much more of a process.
It's more akin to a
WebObjects direct action.
Typically you'll find
that a session bean,
in order to implement its functionality,
will manipulate a whole slew
of what would be entity beans.
The basic idea is that if you're going
to be interacting heavily with an object,
you don't want to use an entity bean,
you want to use a session bean in
order to avoid the overhead problem.
Okay, so now I'd like to talk just a
little bit about persistence because
persistence is essential to EJB.
I mean, the bottom line is that
objects are at least 50% data.
Well, I mean, the ratio may vary,
but you can't have an
object without data.
And chances are,
most meaningful data is going
to have to be stored somewhere.
So persistence is very, very important.
There are two flavors, again,
of persistence in EJB:
bean-managed persistence and
container-managed persistence.
So let's talk a little bit about
being a managed persistence.
Again,
going back to this contract between
Container and Enterprise JavaBean,
There's a bunch of APIs associated with
entity beans for managing persistence.
Essentially, the container invokes
these methods and the EJB,
the entity bean,
is expected to react to them
and behave appropriately.
So, when the container sends
an EJB or an entity bean
specifically a create message,
it's expected to initialize
its data as appropriate on
the basis of the arguments,
Communicate with JDBC.
Introduce the data associated
with itself into either a table
or tables in the database.
The entity bean itself,
in the case of BeanManagedPersistence,
is responsible for performing
all those operations.
It's interesting when one
considers this is a method.
If you implement this
method in your code,
and the only interface you
have at your disposal is JDBC,
you're going to wind up writing
essentially SQL code in your entity bean.
So what happens when
you change the schema?
Let's say you do something as
simple as change a column name,
let alone change a database vendor.
You're going to have to recompile a bean.
Same thing for EJB_LOAD.
In this case, there's a couple of really
weird semantics in EJB.
In this case,
you're going to have to write a code
that's going to be in the database.
In this case, even though the entity bean
hasn't been initialized,
in other words,
it doesn't have its identity yet,
it doesn't have its primary key yet,
the only interface between the
container and the logic that
you've implemented is the bean.
So it kind of initializes an entity bean
and then tells itself to load itself.
So the entity bean at this
point doesn't have its data.
It's expected again to go through JDBC,
go out to the database, get its data,
populate itself appropriately.
Same cycle.
same responsibilities for the entity.
Again, when the container tells
the bean to store itself,
it's responsible for figuring out what
portions of its data have changed.
Communicate those changes to
JDBC so that JDBC can update
columns or rows in the database.
Now, very interesting thing to do
if you download the reference
implementation of EJB from Sun,
just take one of the entity beans,
change it so that the only thing
you do in any of these methods is,
you know, println to standard out,
you'll see that the slew of invocations
of EJB load and EJB store that transpire
in even the simplest operation.
So, if this process of loading
oneself from the database,
let alone storing oneself on the basis
of only that data that has changed,
isn't very carefully managed,
performance just degradates phenomenally.
And really,
EJB does not provide any assistance
in this process for entity beans
with bean-managed persistence.
The final two cases are EJB Remove.
The bean is supposed to
figure out how to destroy any
references to itself in store.
Do that and then just kind of go away.
And finally, EJB.find,
which I'm not even going to get into.
Again,
this is one of those things where the
container asks an instance of an entity
bean class to go out and find a bunch of
other instances of that class for itself.
It's a little weird.
The bottom line, though,
is that this EJB specification,
and the use of the word "this" is
actually kind of interesting here,
this EJB specification does not
define the architecture for data
access objects or strategies.
This means that EJB...
EJB persistence is limited to JDBC.
The only tool that an entity bean
has at its disposal to implement
all of that logic that we just
saw is pure row oriented JDBC,
essentially SQL.
In the case of container
managed persistence,
the theory here is that the
container will manage all that
hard work for the entity bean.
I mean,
who really would want to deal with all
that and just leave it to the container?
So, well, it still invokes all these
methods on the entity bean.
The entity bean is just...
is a container that is supposed to do
anything when it gets these messages.
But the container is what
manages the relationship between
the bean and the database.
It invokes JDBC.
It performs all these
operations for the entity bean.
According to the spec,
the disadvantage of container-managed
persistence is that sophisticated
tools must be used at deployment
time to map the entity bean's
fields to a data source.
It's kind of strange that sophisticated
tools are such a disadvantage,
but
What they're really saying here is
that these tools and containers are
typically specific to each data source.
Well, typically I suppose they are.
Furthermore, if the Bean provider,
this is the person who
writes the entity Bean,
Sun defines all these roles
which typically coalesce
into one or two people.
If the Bean provider expects that
the container managed fields will
be mapped to database fields,
he should provide mapping instructions
to the deployer for realization by
the data access classes generated
by the container provider's tools.
Because entity beans are
typically coarse-grained objects,
the content of the container-managed
fields may be stored in multiple rows,
possibly spread across
multiple database tables.
These mapping techniques are beyond
the scope of the EJB specification.
and do not need to be supported
by an EJB compliant container.
I thought the container was going
to handle all this hassle for me,
but I guess it turns out
that it isn't going to.
And indeed,
because a compliant EJB container is
not required to provide any support
for mapping the container-managed
fields to a database schema,
a bean provider of entity beans
that need a particular mapping to an
underlying database schema instead
should use bean-managed persistence.
So, they just threw the ball
right back in the beans court.
An entity bean designer who runs
into the limitations of container
managed persistence should use
bean managed persistence instead.
I guess I'll be using
bean managed persistence.
Okay, so that's a brief
overview of what EJB is.
Very brief.
Now I'd like to talk a little
bit about WebObjects versus EJB.
WebObjects has a contract too.
We call these things objects,
not components, but same basic principle.
Our contract is called EnterpriseObject.
The two parties of the contract are
your business class and something
we call an editing context.
The editing context is
essentially our container.
The relationship and communication
between the editing context and the
Enterprise object is bidirectional.
[Transcript missing]
The editing context, I mean,
there's just no notion of
Enterprise Object Managed Persistence.
The whole idea is that the
editing context takes care
of all that hassle for you.
So it communicates with
the database driver.
and manages conveying data
from the data store to the
Enterprise Object and back again.
It also manages the
relationships between objects,
manages rendering them in
terms of the database schema,
and it also tracks changes.
So it always knows what components of
the Enterprise Object have been modified.
So it's able to optimize
this communication.
You'll see in WebObjects 5 for
Java that JDBC is the driver.
So this is very analogous in
that respect to the container.
It's worth pointing out here, actually,
I'm simplifying things,
but actually it isn't the editing context
that communicates with the database.
The editing context communicates with
something called an object store.
The editing context is itself
a kind of object store,
but object store is our general
paradigm for persistence.
The fundamental assumption
of an enterprise object
is that it does have data,
and believe it or not,
that data will persist.
The whole architecture of
WebObjects is designed from the
ground up to support this notion.
The editing context communicates
with the object store.
The object store communicates with JDBC,
and JDBC communicates with the database.
WebObjects distribution.
I don't know how many of
you were here this morning,
but the basic idea here is that
you have an editing context
containing an Enterprise object
on one side of the network.
You have an object on the
other side of the network that
wants to communicate with it.
Again,
we want to avoid this overhead of the
conversation between the two objects.
So what we do is we introduce an
editing context on the client side.
Okay?
Now the reason that we can do this, well,
there are two fundamental
reasons that we can do this.
First of all, from the ground up, again,
we have this understanding that objects
have data that changes and will persist.
So from the ground up,
we know that we're going to be editing
objects and we're going to want to
push those changes to an object store.
Okay?
So what happens here is that
the object store is just on
the other side of the network.
All right?
But all the optimization is
performed locally so that the
amount of communication back and
forth when rendering those changes
back to the server and perhaps
or perhaps not to the database,
that amount of communication
is kept to an absolute minimum.
So there's an editing
context on the client side.
There are editing contexts in the direct
to Java client applications that you saw.
We have an object on the server side.
and a proxy or another
rendition of the object.
It's actually another edition of
the object on the client side.
And as far as the client
editing context is concerned,
the editing context on the
server or more concretely,
the distributed object store which
connects it to that editing context,
is just another object store.
So the editing context behaves
just as it would as if this
was a single unified process.
Keep network overhead to a minimum.
Okay, and again,
you've got this fundamental need to
balance the client and the server.
How much logic do you put -- how much
logic do you leave on the server?
How much do you transmit
down to the client?
Again, with WebObjects,
you have complete control over that.
As you should have -- if you saw,
you would have seen this morning,
you can specify what class you
want to use on the client side.
That class can have less data.
It can be a much smaller object.
It can have a whole lot of
client-side specific logic.
But you have complete control
over that distribution.
And that control over that
distribution is essential to
creating scalable applications,
scalable distributed applications.
Okay, so that's a gloss on
WebObjects versus EJB.
Now I'd like to talk very
briefly about what our plans
are for WebObjects and EJB.
Our first goal,
our first and foremost goal
is to create a container.
[Transcript missing]
That way, if someone hands you
an Enterprise JavaBean,
you'll be able to install it
in your WebObjects application
and act as an EJB server.
So, to clients of that EJB,
you'll be indistinguishable
from any other EJB server.
[Transcript missing]
is making it possible to
define one's business objects
in terms of our paradigm,
in terms of our contract between
enterprise object and editing context.
and then expose that object,
that Enterprise object, as an EJB.
So the container will think it's
manipulating an Enterprise JavaBean,
but in fact this Enterprise JavaBean
will be implemented in terms
of WebObjects and our contract,
so it will have all the power
and simplicity of our contract,
but appear to the
outside world as an EJB.
This is where things get much
more interesting because,
for example, if one has implemented a lot
of custom logic in classes
that are Enterprise objects,
with the flick of a switch,
you'll be able to expose them to the
outside world as Enterprise JavaBeans.
This is very important in shops
where there are several WebObject
zealots and a bunch of people down
the hall in accounting who are using
some EJB server and wonder why these
guys are doing something different.
To the outside world,
it'll all look like EJB.
Okay, and then beyond that, well,
when you look at this closely though,
because of the tight link between an
Enterprise Object and an editing context,
you can't really make an
Enterprise Object seem like an
Enterprise JavaBean without embedding
and editing context and enough of
WebObjects logic and WebObjects
contract inside the bean.
Well, once you've done this though,
there's really no need for a WebObjects
application to act as a server.
This is one of the huge
benefits that we're going to
see from going to pure Java.
This is all pure Java, right?
So it doesn't really
matter where it's running.
So we'll be able to
essentially take our container,
Rip it out,
throw this Enterprise JavaBean
into someone else's container,
any other vendor's container,
and have it execute just as if it
was something they had developed
or something that was running
in a WebObjects application.
So this represents a very interesting
opportunity for our technology because
this interface's contract between the
Enterprise JavaBean and the container
will be something of a Trojan horse.
You're suddenly going to find
our technologies running in
foreign platforms in ways that
they never could have previously.
So that's a very interesting possibility.
There's some obvious
technical complications,
but we've already gone a long
way towards resolving these in
implementing direct-to-Java client.
The client side is not a
traditional WebObjects application.
It's a Java application or Java applet.
So we've resolved some of
the technical mechanics.
There are also obviously licensing
issues and marketing issues,
but this is something
that has great potential.
Okay,
so our goals are to provide a container,
a very basic container.
Expose Enterprise Objects
as Entity Beans.
Now I'm emphasizing entity beans because
They map pretty well
to Enterprise objects.
For example,
if you have an entity in modeler,
chances are that that will map
pretty well to an entity bean.
One has to be very careful.
Because of the distribution model in EJB,
you're going to find that you're
incurring a lot of overhead
whenever you invoke methods.
So it's not quite like it
is for an Enterprise object.
So even though with the check of a
radio box you're going to be able to
render an entity as an entity bean,
you're probably going to want to
go in subsequently and tune it with
the understanding that you don't
necessarily want to expose a lot of
logic that comes natural in a single
process or our distribution model.
But it's a great way
to get off the ground.
And finally, we want to generate
exportable WebObjects EJBs.
So, be able to create a system with
logic in WebObjects using our tools,
our patented object relational mapping,
all the goodies that Editing
Context takes care of for you,
and then export that
into some other vendor.
If a company has a deployment
requirement that they use some
other vendor's technology,
no problem.
We'll be able to take our beans,
put them in there, and deploy.
Alright,
that's really about all I had planned,
so now I'd like to turn it over to Q&A.